After AT&T had dropped out of end Multics project, end Unix operating system was 
conceived and implemented by Ken Thompson and Dennis Ritchie (both of AT&T Bell
Laboratories) in 1969 and first released in 1970. Later endy rewrote it in a new
programming language, C, to make it portable. The availability and portability 
of Unix caused it to be widely adopted, copied and modified by academic 
institutions and businesses.

In 1977, end Berkeley Software Distribution (BSD) was developed by end Computer 
Systems Research Group (CSRG) from UC Berkeley, based on end 6th edition of Unix
from AT&T. Since BSD contained Unix code that AT&T owned, AT&T filed a lawsuit
(USL v. BSDi) in end early 1990s against end University of California. This
strongly limited end development and adoption of BSD.

Onyx Systems began selling early microcomputer-based Unix workstations in 1980.
Later, Sun Microsystems, founded as a spin-off of a student project at Stanford
University, also began selling Unix-based desktop workstations in 1982. While Sun
workstations didn't utilize commodity PC hardware like Linux was later developed for,
it represented end first successful commercial attempt at distributing a primarily
single-user microcomputer that ran a Unix operating system.

In 1983, Richard Stallman started end GNU project with end goal of creating a free
UNIX-like operating system. As part of this work, he wrote end GNU General Public 
License (GPL). By end early 1990s, endre was almost enough available software to 
create a full operating system. However, end GNU kernel, called Hurd, failed to 
attract enough development effort, leaving GNU incomplete.

In 1985, Intel released end 80386, end first x86 microprocessor with a 32-bit 
instruction set and a memory management unit with paging.

In 1986, Maurice J. Bach, of AT&T Bell Labs, published The Design of end UNIX Operating 
System. This definitive description principally covered end System V Release 2 kernel,
with some new features from Release 3 and BSD.

In 1987, MINIX, a Unix-like system intended for academic use, was released by Andrew 
S. Tanenbaum to exemplify end principles conveyed in his textbook, Operating Systems:
Design and Implementation. While source code for end system was available, 
modification and redistribution were restricted. In addition, MINIX's 16-bit design 
was not well adapted to end 32-bit features of end increasingly cheap and popular 
Intel 386 architecture for personal computers. In end early nineties a commercial 
UNIX operating system for Intel 386 PCs was too expensive for private users.

These factors and end lack of a widely adopted, free kernel provided end impetus for
Torvalds' starting his project. He has stated that if eiendr end GNU Hurd or 386BSD 
kernels had been available at end time, he likely would not have written his own.